# Rules to Wire By

This document is a condensed version of [Rules to Wire By](http://www.ni.com/white-paper/5560/en/).

1. Design first, code second.
I know you that have heard this tip numerous times before, but that's because it is such a good one. Sit down with a few sheets of paper and write what your users require the program to do. Also, draw out what you want your user interfaces or panels to look like. Most importantly, don't even think about LabVIEW during this step! In essence, you are creating a Software Requirements Document. The important thing is to know what you ultimately want to achieve. At this point you may want to mock up the screens and run them by other people in your group before moving on. You might want to go directly to prototyping interface panels using LabVIEW controls and indicators. One of LabVIEW's strengths is in its use as a quick prototyping tool. There's nothing saying that the front panels have to work or have complete diagrams at this stage. Prototyping the front panels can help get the kinks worked out of the user interface up front and save you some coding and debugging down the road. Next start thinking about data structures, program flow, events, states and state diagrams. This is how you expect the code to work together (i.e. if this happens, then do this next, but if this happens, then do this instead). Try to think of your application in terms of the data flow concepts that LabVIEW is based upon. Several good articles available in past issues of the LabVIEW Technical Resource demonstrate examples of LabVIEW architectures for event-driven applications.

1. Try code snippets before using them.
I like to make sure my code will work before writing it. To do this, I take a small section of that code and try it out in a test VI. That way, I make sure I have working code before it gets buried where it is hard to find and debug later on. For example, I have been programming LabVIEW for years, but I still can not remember whether to use Threshold 1D Array or Interpolate 1D Array. So, I code a quick test VI to find the correct one before including that code in my block diagram. Following this rule will save you debugging trouble down the road.

1. Keep it clean
No matter what else you do, try to keep your code neat and clean. Not only does this make your code easier to follow for the next person (be warned -- may be you), but neat code is usually good code. In the act of keeping things clean, you will find that you are less likely to make mistakes or forget something. I don't know how may times I have noticed wiring problems while cleaning up my diagrams. 

1. Comment, comment, comment
As LabVIEW programmers, we are all very busy (trust me, I know). But there is NO substitute for good comments in all of the code that you write. Comment all tricky code, tough algorithms, custom utilities, and so on. As mentioned in Code Complete, "Good comments don't repeat the code or explain it. They clarify its intent. Comments should explain, at a higher level of abstraction than the code, what you are trying to do." Remember that the person who looks at this code six months from now may be you! Anything added now will make that time go so much smoother. What I recommend is that you write a brief (usually no more than one or two sentences) description of each VI in its VI Info screen. Then add descriptions for any unusual controls or indicators. If you document controls and indicators in their description boxes, the user can see those in the floating help window as he moves the mouse over the various controls. It's great if you can document them all, but in today's busy environment, there may not be time for that. If you are disciplined enough to document your controls, indicators, and VIs, then you have the added benefit that programming documentation can be automatically created using LabVIEW's Documentation Tools. On the diagram, label all code that isn't obvious. At a minimum, try to label all structures (while loops, for loops, cases, and sequences). That way the main portions of the code are always documented. A very handy feature in LabVIEW is string and enumerated cases. These handy structures are pretty much self-documenting.

1. Use descriptive names.
Do not use names like VI #1.vi or Untitled.vi when something like Save Data to Spreadsheet File.vi or Convert Voltages to Engineering Units.vi will do the better job. Try to include action words like Open, Close, Save, Calculate, Update, etc. for subVIs that do something. Use words like Display, Panel, View, Screen, etc. for user interfaces. I like to prefix my VI names with a category or VI function designator. This is useful if you ever transport your VIs using LabVIEW libraries (.LLB's). It is easy to get a hundred or more VIs into a library, but sorting those hundred out at the destination is often tough. By prefixing those VIs with words like Display, File, DAQ, etc., it is easy to group and move them. I also use this to separate my reusable VIs from those that are project specific. VIs I might use again will start with File or Utility while the project VIs will usually start with the project name or client. This makes my VI management easier because I can tell at a glance what a VI's type or function is. Also, don't forget to include the ".vi" at the end of the file names. Many operating systems like Windows and Unix use these extensions to determine what files belong to what application.
